docs/database_setup.md, before:

# Database Setup for Tagline Backend

This guide explains how to configure, initialize, and manage the database for the Tagline backend.

## Supported Databases
- **SQLite** (default, file-based or in-memory)
- **PostgreSQL** (recommended for production)

## Quick Start (Development)

1. **Clone the repository and set up your virtual environment:**
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/jefferyharrell/Tagline-backend.git
    cd Tagline-backend
    python -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

2. **Configure your database connection:**
    - By default, Tagline uses SQLite and stores data in `./tagline.db`.
    - To use another database (e.g., PostgreSQL), set the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable:
      ```sh
      export DATABASE_URL=postgresql+psycopg2://user:password@localhost:5432/tagline
      ```
    - Example `.env` entry:
      ```env
      DATABASE_URL=sqlite:///./tagline.db
      ```

3. **Run migrations:**
    ```sh
    alembic upgrade head
    ```
    This creates all tables as defined in the latest models.

4. **Run the app:**
    ```sh
    just run
    # or
    uvicorn app.main:app --reload
    ```

## Environment Variables
- `DATABASE_URL` (optional): SQLAlchemy connection string. If not set, defaults to `sqlite:///./tagline.db`.
- `APP_ENV`: Set to `development`, `production`, or `test` as appropriate.

## SQLite Notes
- For most development, the default SQLite file is fine.
- For tests, an in-memory SQLite database is used automatically.
- If running with SQLite in production, beware of concurrency and file-locking limitations.

## Running Tests
- Tests use an in-memory SQLite DB for isolation and speed.
- No manual DB setup is required for running tests.

## Migrations
- Alembic is used for migrations.
- Migration scripts are in `alembic/`.
- Typical commands:
    - `alembic revision --autogenerate -m "Describe change"`
    - `alembic upgrade head`

## Troubleshooting
- If you change models and get errors, make sure to generate and apply a new migration.
- If `DATABASE_URL` is invalid or unreachable, the app will fail to start.
- For SQLite, ensure the app has write permissions to the target directory.

## See Also
- `.env.example` for sample environment variables.
- `app/config.py` and `app/db/session.py` for DB connection logic.
- [SQLAlchemy docs](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/) for connection string formats and advanced usage.

Commit message:

fix: update backend import paths and Dockerfile for correct package structure
- Change all backend imports from `app.*` to `tagline_backend_app.*` throughout the codebase, tests, and documentation.
- Update Dockerfile to copy the correct `tagline_backend_app` directory and set the correct Uvicorn entrypoint.
- Update README and STATUS.md to reflect new module/package names and usage instructions.
- Fix Justfile: rename `all` recipe to `test` for clarity and CI consistency.
- Clean up trailing whitespace and formatting issues in alembic.ini and other files.
- All tests (unit, integration, E2E) now pass and pre-commit hooks succeed.

docs/database_setup.md, after:

# Database Setup for Tagline Backend

This guide explains how to configure, initialize, and manage the database for the Tagline backend.

## Supported Databases
- **SQLite** (default, file-based or in-memory)
- **PostgreSQL** (recommended for production)

## Quick Start (Development)

1. **Clone the repository and set up your virtual environment:**
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/jefferyharrell/Tagline-backend.git
    cd Tagline-backend
    python -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

2. **Configure your database connection:**
    - By default, Tagline uses SQLite and stores data in `./tagline.db`.
    - To use another database (e.g., PostgreSQL), set the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable:
      ```sh
      export DATABASE_URL=postgresql+psycopg2://user:password@localhost:5432/tagline
      ```
    - Example `.env` entry:
      ```env
      DATABASE_URL=sqlite:///./tagline.db
      ```

3. **Run migrations:**
    ```sh
    alembic upgrade head
    ```
    This creates all tables as defined in the latest models.

4. **Run the Server:**
    Start the FastAPI development server:
    ```bash
    uvicorn tagline_backend_app.main:app --reload
    ```
    FastAPI should now connect to your database using the URL specified in `.env` (or the default SQLite DB if `.env` or `DATABASE_URL` is not set).

## Environment Variables
- `DATABASE_URL` (optional): SQLAlchemy connection string. If not set, defaults to `sqlite:///./tagline.db`.
- `APP_ENV`: Set to `development`, `production`, or `test` as appropriate.

## SQLite Notes
- For most development, the default SQLite file is fine.
- For tests, an in-memory SQLite database is used automatically.
- If running with SQLite in production, beware of concurrency and file-locking limitations.

## Running Tests
- Tests use an in-memory SQLite DB for isolation and speed.
- No manual DB setup is required for running tests.

## Migrations
- Alembic is used for migrations.
- Migration scripts are in `alembic/`.
- Typical commands:
    - `alembic revision --autogenerate -m "Describe change"`
    - `alembic upgrade head`

## Troubleshooting
- If you change models and get errors, make sure to generate and apply a new migration.
- If `DATABASE_URL` is invalid or unreachable, the app will fail to start.
- For SQLite, ensure the app has write permissions to the target directory.

## See Also
- `.env.example` for sample environment variables.
- `tagline_backend_app/config.py` and `tagline_backend_app/db.py` for DB connection logic.
- [SQLAlchemy docs](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/) for connection string formats and advanced usage.
